Okay, so
we kinda have our written operations.
So again, we need to start
defining some of these types.
So the first thing we'll do is
just go type Node of value.
Usually I use t as my over generic T.
So I'm gonna have a value,
which is gonna be T,
we're gonna have a next which
is gonna possibly be A node T.
And we're gonna also have
a previous which will be A node T.
Awesome, okay,
we've defined our node structure.
This is a doubly linked list,
looks very familiar.
this.length = 0 of course.
Now we need to define our head and
our tail, right?
So private head,
which really can be undefined, right?
There is no guarantee
that it's gonna exist.
Now what's our T in this case?
Our T is the B, right?
It's the value we want to store.
Our linked list is the list of values,
correct?
Awesome.
We do the same thing with tail.
Okay, so we're starting to get
through this whole idea here.
So this.head equals this.tail = undefined,
I like to be super duper explicit here.
Now, we need to define something else,
right?
What are we missing?
Well, we're missing our
traversal in the linked list.
We're missing our instant
lookup in our linked list,
which is going to be our key to node,
makes sense?
Yes, so let's put that thing in there.
So we're gonna have to
have a private lookup,
which is going to be a map
of key two node of V, right?
That's the big trick right here.
We have to have the linked list as
the fundamental storage unit, right?
All right, and for convenience,
I'm gonna add a quick
function called Create Node,
which is gonna take a value of V,
and return out value,
and this thing will be
of course as a node B.
Just make it super easy, cuz or
else I have to do that whole as node
if I do it in line, blah, blah, blah.
This just helps with the types.
Fantastic.
So we need to create that lookup.
this.lookup equals new map,
as of course, a K and a NodeV.
There we go, we now have that but
we're still missing one thing.
What's the thing we're missing?
>> Capacity?
>> Capacity, awesome job.
Yeah, we need a capacity.
How many items do we wish to
have inside of our cache?
So capacity, which is gonna be a number.
We cannot exceed this capacity.
This is the capacity of our LRU.
Go forth and evict, right?
So there we go.
We have everything we want right now.
For fun, I'll put a little = 10
here just in case my unit test just
assumed it was 10.
I don't remember what I wrote for
my unit test.
So there we go,
I covered both conditions there.
So now we have the length, how many items
we have in the cache, we have the head and
tail being undefined.
We have the lookup being the map we're
gonna use to look up from the key
to the value.
Are we missing anything else?
I felt like I had a second map.
I'm gonna probably go,
probably not, right?
We probably don't have a map.
We'll find out.
Actually, we do have a second map.
What's the second map?
The second map, of course is gonna be,
what happens when we evict, right?
How do we find out what key was stored for
our lookup?
Right?
We have to be able to
clean up all of our data.
We're gonna know what node to remove,
but we won't know what key is
associated with our node that
is used as part of our lookup.
That means our lookup will just sit
there and infinitely leak memory, or
even worse give us wrong results and
actually store those results indefinitely.
So we need a reverse lookup, right?
Classic blunder, again,
land war in Asia, just don't do it.
So we need to be able to go from a node
back to the key, delete that out,
then delete out the key
that is in the lookup.
Does that make sense?
Again, why would we ask this
question in an interview?
I want you to riddle me that one.
This is pretty complicated, right?
All right.
So there we go we have this go
reverse lookup equals new map, and
of course I'm just gonna yank everything
in between there because I really
don't wanna write it again.
Paste that, and do that and K, awesome.
So we have the lookup, we have
the reverse lookup, we have the head,
we have the tail, we have the length,
and everything is set for
us to be able to do these operations.
Is everyone ready?
All right.
So I'm gonna start with get,
cuz get is really, really simple, right?
So first, let's check for
existence, all right.
const node = this.lookup(key), right?
So if, my goodness!
Yeah, yet I forget.
You gotta use it like that, right?
So if this thing doesn't,
what kind of indenting was that?
If this thing does not exist
at this point, what happens?
Well, we can't get this for you, right?
Sorry, it doesn't exist.
We can't do anything at this point.
So return undefined, awesome.
But what if we do find a value?
Well, we've to follow these steps.
We need to update the value
that we have found, and
by moving it to the front, correct?
All right, so that is the unfortunate
move we now have to do.
We now have to do those sweet
linked list operations.
So we can do some kind of checking to
make sure how this thing is going, so
we're gonna have to kind of
give me a bit of playing here.
So, I'm gonna have let's have
a detach function, right?
Call this thing private detach, right?
And we'll pass in a node
that is of a value, right?
We're just gonna simply detach
this node from our linked list.
And then we could also have
a private prepend, right?
And this will take in a node and
then do that.
It's kinda for me, it's a lot easier
to break up these operations,
as opposed to trying to be like okay,
we're gonna do this, this, this.
Cuz then you just get a huge wall of nexts
and previous, and all that kind of stuff.
For me it's a little bit harder
to accomplish this, first try.
So that means what we're gonna have to do
is we're going to have to detach the node.
To detach the node.
All right, it's now no longer on our
linked list, but it's still in our lookup,
it's still in our reverse lookup,
which is good.
Then we have to this.prepend,
add it to the front.
Everything's good, everything's great.
I feel like that's gonna
be pretty easy to program.
I'm sure there's some shortcuts we
could take that would reduce the amount
of lines of code by having those
two functions put together.
Cuz we're gonna have this whole tail and
head check that goes on for some of these,
but right now we don't care.
All right, lastly, we need to return out
the value or undefined if it not exist.
We already did that eight line ups.
So therefore we're gonna
just return out node.value.
Right here.
There we go, we just did get.
Get was actually not all that hard, right?
Well, I don't think it was all that hard.
All right, so now let's do update.
So first we need to check
does this thing even exist?
So we'll do the same thing we did
right here, and just go bam, right?
Does this thing even exist?
We're gonna go look for it.
Now what if it doesn't exist?
What do we do?
Well, it's simple, right?
Now we need to come in here and we need
to be able to create a new node, right?
So node = createNode, and we need
to create it with the value, right?
There we go, we've now created
the node that didn't exist.
But if it does exist, we have this
whole thing we have to do, right?
Or we have to do this side, right?
We have to do these two sides.
So if it does exist, let's do that
one cuz that's honestly easier.
If it does exist, we just simply need to
move this to the front of the list, right?
So again, this.detach(node),
this.prepend(node),
we've just moved it to the front,
everything's great, the end, correct?
It's this one that's the trickier one.
Now we need to adjust
the length of how many we have,
we need to prepend it,
then we may need to delete from cache.
So let's go like this, this.length ++,
add one to our length.
this.prepend, our node we've
added it to the front.
And then of course, this.trim cache.
I'll just call it trim cache, right?
It's a function in which will ensure
that our cache remains no greater than
our capacity.
Sounds good?
Yeah, sounds great.
Awesome, all right.
So let's do one more, private trimCache.
We're gonna say, void.
Look at all those proper,
proper function definitions right there.
These two don't have voids on them,
very disappointed by myself.
All right, so now we just simply need
to do each one of these operations.
So we can start first with detach.
Which is gonna simply need to kind of
remove out the links, place it right here.
So the first thing we need to do is I
could do something as simple as this.
If node.prev,
then nodes.prev.next = node.next, right?
We've went backwards and say hey,
backwards forward must be our forwards, or
must be our forward, right?
Did the whole thing, which of course
is this operation right here.
We went back to this thing and
pointed its next,
not to us but
to the one ahead of us, awesome.
Do it again the other direction.
So if our next exists, then our
next.prev must be our current node.prev.
So again, we go to our previous,
we already did that direction.
We go to our next previous which
is pointing here, and say no,
point over here, right?
Our next previous needs to
point to our previous, yeah.
I wish there was more words I could say,
it feels like it cuts off too soon.
All right, so there we go.
So we have our previous
in our next conditioning.
So we've now removed ourselves
effectively from the graph.
Now all we have to do is break our links
pointing to the ones that are still within
that linked list.
I call it a graph, or linkless graph.
Yeah, they're totally graphs.
They're just all in a big line, right?
That's just the whole big line,
of course I'm right.
All right, so node.next = undefined,
node.prev = undefined, right?
Did I do this correctly?
Yes, I really do think I did this
correctly, but there is, of course,
the tail and the head checking
that we need to figure out, right?
So there's a couple different ways
in which we can approach this.
One way we could approach this is we
could always have this.length = 0, right?
Or if this.length = 1, well,
that means our length is now 0 for
a moment, which means that our head and
our tail should become undefined, right?
Detached does not alter length,
it just simply detaches it from the graph.
So in a real sense,
this.tail needs to become this.head,
which needs to become undefined, right?
That makes sense.
The problem is, of course,
is if this.head === node,
the thing we are removing
is our current head.
If that's the case,
this.head = this.head.next, right?
We need to shift our head over one
before we break all the links.
Cuz if we break all the links,
we just cut off our own head.
Nobody wants to be discombobulated
like that, that'd be just terrible!
Again, this.tail,
again this worst circular linked
list could come in handy right here.
This if our tail is the node then
this.tail = this.tail.prev, awesome.
Does that sound good?
Yes, awesome.
So another thing we do is,
if you think about this right here,
if this is true,
if our length is 1, quick question.
Is head next gonna be undefined?
Yes, it is.
Is tail.prev gonna be undefined?
Yes, it really is.
Which means we don't even need that check,
right?
We're simply gonna just remove the links,
by accident, everything is great,
there we go, we just did it.
So, now we have detach effectively
written, pretty happy about that.
I'm feeling pretty good about this.
And so, we need to do the next one,
which is prepend.
We add it to the front of the list.
So let's do some simple checks.
If this.head, if there is no head,
then this.head = this.tail = node, right?
If there's no head, there's no tail,
now we have a head and we have a tail,
all right.
So if that's not the case, then we need to
do something slightly different, right?
So I'm gonna just do a little
quick return right here.
And we this simply take the head,
we need to point to it,
then have our head points to
the node we're adding, and
then move the head to where we're at,
right?
So Step one, let's point to the head,
node.next = this.head.
Awesome, right?
Next, our head needs to point to node,
right?
Or our head.prev needs to point to node,
so there we go.
So if you saw A at
the front of the list and
we're now adding Z,
Z points to A, A points to Z.
Now we just simply need to
have our head point to Z.
So this.head equals node.
There we go, all right?
So I believe we have prepend correctly.
Now the last one is
gonna be the tricky one.
We're going to make some assumptions here.
If this.length is greater
than this.capacity, well,
we need to do some removals.
So let's just swap this thing around.
If length is less than or
equal to our capacity, we can return else.
Let's remove the tail.
So the first thing we need to do is
we need to remove the tail, right?
So we can go like this.
Const tail = this.tail.
We hold on to a reference to our tail, and
then this.detach,
remove our tail from the graph, right?
There we go, we've now removed, oopsies.
As, I mean we already know this is true,
right?
We did the check right here.
We already know this is true.
Typescript's like, well,
I don't know what.
We're like, but we do know.
I'm sure there's a sweet TypeScript.
I've seen what TypeScript does, and
I'm sure there's a way to make this true.
All right, so there we go.
We have that, we now have the tail
completely removed from our linked list,
but we don't have it
removed from our lookups.
So we can go const key =
this.reverseLookup.get(tail), right?
So we're gonna get the,
my goodness, as node V, yeah.
There we go.
That should be totally not undefined,
dang it!
I thought that was gonna work,
I thought it was genius,
I thought that always works.
I don't even know.
Do I have to do this one?
Sorry, this is just a TypeScript
moment of me just sucking.
Man, I can just hear TypeScript has gone,
[SOUND] don't do it.
All right, there we go.
So we go and
do a reverse lookup of our tail,
it does work, we get our key out of here.
There should never be a moment in
which that key doesn't exist, or
we have severely messed up our insertion,
right?
When which we currently have,
but we'll get there.
So we'll just do this as k, right?
It is the key.
Next, we'll take this and
go this.lookup.delete(key), awesome.
This.reverse lookup.delete(tail).
There we go, we have now deleted
everything out, we've detached our tail.
We're fully ready to go, awesome.
The only thing we have less to do is
that length needs to be reduced by one,
cuz we have fully just trimmed the cache.
Everything's good to go,
we've done it, awesome.
Last thing we need to do,
which I just realized right now,
is inside of our update method right here.
Or what did we not do?
We prepend, we trimmed the cache,
but we don't have
ourselves a beautiful update our lookups,
right?
So this.lookup.set of course is
gonna be the key we want to use,
plus of course,
the node we're gonna be inserting.
And our reverse lookup is going
to have to be this node, right?
We're gonna do a reverse.lookup.set(node,
key), right?
Awesome.
And then I also realized this
one other part right here,
is that we actually didn't
update the node's value.
So node value needs to equal the new value
that's passed in, just in case the value
has been changed, we don't know
if the value has been changed.
You can see right above me the update
function takes in a new value, right?
Fantastic, so I believe we have finished
programming our entire LRU at this point.
How does everyone feel,
pretty good about this thing?
[LAUGH] Yeah, like really good?
Okay, we got sturdy head
nods going on right now.
And no one would ever lie to me.
So we know for a fact that this is good.
All right, just LRU.
We're gonna run it.
My goodness, we got it first try,
that was actually.
I have impressed myself, because the test
is actually fairly lengthy, right?
We got 69420s in there,
all sorts stuffs going on in here.
So we did properly actually
do all this stuff.
There you go, that is an LRU.
It's the combination of
two data structures.
We understood, a map plus a linked list
to be able to create something that
can actually cache data, and
this is something that we use at Netflix.
This is something I had to build,
spent many years crafting and
building this thing.
So again, these data structures
are things you will eventually run
into as you build libraries.
Now if you're just doing UI components,
if you're just doing something light,
you're not gonna probably
run into these things.
But the moment you cross the boundary
from just simple UI features into
something that the UI uses, you will
often run into any of these things.